releases: add tidb 5.4.1  release notes (#8436)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-5.4.1.md

---
title: TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes

Release Date: May 13, 2022

TiDB version: 5.4.1

## Compatibility changes

> TiDB v5.4.1 does not introduce any compatibility changes in product design. But note that bug fixes in this release might result in compatibility changes too. For more information, see [Bug Fixes](#bug-fixes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB v5.4.1 does not introduce any compatibility changes in product design. But note that bug fixes in this release might result in compatibility changes, too. For more information, see [Bug Fixes](#bug-fixes).
```

        - Fix the issue that BR fails to back up RawKV [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)
        - Fix duplicate primary keys when inserting a record into a table after incremental restoration [#33596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33596)
        - Fix a bug that BR incremental restore returns errors mistakenly due to DDL jobs with empty query [#33322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33322)
        - Fix the potential issue that Regions might be unevenly distributed after a restore operation is finished [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034)
        - Fix the issue that BR does not retry enough times when Regions are not consistent during restoration [#33419](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33419)
        - Fix the issue that BR might panic occasionally when merging small files is enabled [#33801](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33801)
        - Fix the issue that schedulers do not resume after BR or TiDB Lightning exits abnormally [#33546](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33546)

    + TiCDC

        - Fix incorrect metrics caused by owner changes [#4774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4774)

>         - Fix incorrect metrics caused by owner changes [#4774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4774)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes

> ---
> # TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
---

# TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes
```

---
title: TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes

Release Date: May xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.4.1

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    - note 1
    - note 2

+ TiKV

    - note 1
    - note 2

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> TiDB)- Support using the PointGet plan for queries that read the `_tidb_rowid` column [#31543](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31543)

>     - Add more debug information for `Apply` executor [#33887](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33887)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Add more logs and metrics for the `Apply` operator to show whether it is parallel [#33887](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33887)
```

>     - Improve the `TopN` pruning logic for analyze version 2 [#34256](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34256)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Improve the `TopN` pruning logic for Analyze Version 2 used for 
collecting statistics [#34256](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34256)
```

>     - Support multi k8s in grafana dashboards [#32593](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32593)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Support displaying multiple Kubernetes clusters in the Grafana dashboard [#32593](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32593)
```

    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix a bug that `tidb_super_read_only` is not automatically enabled when `tidb_restricted_read_only` is enabled [#31745](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31745)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `greatest` or `least` function with collation gets a wrong result [#31789](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31789)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix load data panic if the data is broken at an escape character [#31589](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31589)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the `invalid transaction` error when executing a query using index lookup join [#30468](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30468)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of deleting data of multiple tables using `left join` [#31321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31321)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix a bug that TiDB may dispatch duplicate tasks to TiFlash [#32814](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32814)

>     - Fix the issue that privilege-related operations may fail for upgraded clusters. [#33588](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33588)
>     - fix bug #33509 [#33509](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33509)
>     - fix a bug that compress function may report error [#33397](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33397)
>     - Fix the problem of high use of reArrangeFallback cpu. [#30353](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30353)
>     - Fix the issue that the table attributes don't support index and won't be updated when the partition changes [#33929](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33929)
>     - Fix a bug that the initial `TopN` of the table's statistics may not be correctly sorted [#34216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34216)
>     - Fix reading from `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ATTRIBUTES` return error by skipping the unidentifiable table attributes [#33665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33665)
>     - Fix a bug that even though `@@tidb_enable_parallel_apply` is set, the apply operator is not paralleled when order property exists [#34237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34237)
>     - Fix a bug that '0000-00-00 00:00:00' can be inserted into a datetime column in spite of the `NO_ZERO_DATE` sql_mode restriction [#34099](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34099)
>     - Fix query `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` table cause TiDB server OOM, it can be triggered when checking slow query on the Dashboard [#33893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33893)
>     - Fix the bug that locking with NOWAIT does not return immediately when encountering a lock. [#32754](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32754)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that granting the `all` privilege might fail in clusters that are upgraded from v4.0 [#33588](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33588)
    - Fix the issue of session panic that occurs when executing the prepared statement after table schema change with the MySQL binary protocol [#33509](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33509)
    - Fix the issue that executing SQL statements that have the `compress()` expression with `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` enabled will fail [#33397](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33397)
    - Fix the issue of high CPU usage by the `reArrangeFallback` function [#30353](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30353)
    - Fix the issue that the table attributes are not indexed when a new partition is added and the issue that the table range information are not updated when the partition changes [#33929](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33929)
    - Fix a bug that the `TopN` statistical information of a table during the initialization is not correctly sorted  [#34216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34216)
    - Fix the error reporting that occurs when reading from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ATTRIBUTES` table by skipping the unidentifiable table attributes [#33665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33665)
    - Fix a bug that even if `@@tidb_enable_parallel_apply` is set, the `Apply` operator is not paralleled when an `order` property exists [#34237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34237)
    - Fix a bug that `'0000-00-00 00:00:00'` can be inserted into a `datetime` column despite of the `NO_ZERO_DATE` sql_mode restriction [#34099](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34099)
    - Fix the issue that the TiDB server might run out of memory when querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` table. This issue can be triggered when you check slow queries on the Grafana dashboard. [#33893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33893)
    - Fix a bug that in the `NOWAIT` statement, a transaction being executed does not return immediately when encountering a lock [#32754](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32754)
```

        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the TiCDC panic issue that might occur because `Canal-JSON` does not support nil [#4736](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4736)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a stability problem in workerpool used by Unified Sorter [#4447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4447)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that sequence is incorrectly replicated in some cases [#4563](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4552)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the TiCDC panic issue that might occur when `Canal-JSON` incorrectly handles `string` [#4635](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4635)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that a TiCDC node exits abnormally when a PD leader is killed [#4248](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4248)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that MySQL sink generates duplicated `replace` SQL statements when `batch-replace-enable` is disabled [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)

>         - Fix the DML construct error issue caused by `rename tables` DDL [#5059](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5059)
>         - Fix a rare likelihood that replication be stuck if the owner is changed when the new scheduler is enabled (disabled by default) [#4963](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4963)
>         - Fix ErrProcessorDuplicateOperations when new scheduler is enabled (disabled by default) [#4769](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4769)
>         - Fix the issue that ticdc failed to start when connects to multiple pd endpoints with tls-enabled and the 1st endpoint is not available [#4777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4777)
>         - Fix checkpoint metrics when tables are being scheduled [#4714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4714)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the DML construct error caused by the `rename tables` DDL [#5059](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5059)
        - Fix the issue that in rare cases replication can be stuck if the owner is changed when the new scheduler is enabled (disabled by default) [#4963](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4963)
        - Fix the issue that the error ErrProcessorDuplicateOperations is reported when a new scheduler is enabled (disabled by default) [#4769](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4769)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC fails to start when the first PD set in `-pd` is not available after TLS is enabled [#4777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4777)
        - Fix the issue that the checkpoint metrics is missing when tables are being scheduled [#4714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4714)
```

+ TiKV

    - Support monitoring multi-k8s in Grafana [#12104](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12104)

+ PD

    - Support monitoring multi-k8s in Grafana [#4673](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4673)

+ TiFlash

    - Support displaying multiple Kubernetes clusters in the Grafana dashboard [#4129](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4129)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Support multiple Kubernetes clusters in Grafana dashboards [#4665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4665)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Expose configuration parameters of the Kafka producer to make them configurable in TiCDC [#4385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4385)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Support Syncer using the working directory of the DM-worker rather than `/tmp` to write internal files, and cleaning the directory after the task is stopped [#4107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4107)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

- (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiDB writes wrong data due to the wrong encoding of the `ENUM` or `SET` column [#32302](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32302)
- (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix a bug that causes the restore operation to fail when the encryption information is lost during backup retry [#32423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32423)
- (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the Merge Join operator gets wrong results in certain cases [#33042](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33042)
- (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiDB gets a wrong result when a correlated subquery returns a constant  [#32089](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32089)
- (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when using TiFlash to scan tables with empty range although TiFlash does not support reading tables with empty range yet [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)
- (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `MAX` or `MIN` function on the `ENUM` or `SET` column returns a wrong result when the new collation is enabled in TiDB [#31638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31638)
```

    - Fix the error reporting that occurs when reading from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ATTRIBUTES` table by skipping the unidentifiable table attributes [#33665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33665)
    - Fix a bug that even if `@@tidb_enable_parallel_apply` is set, the `Apply` operator is not paralleled when an `order` property exists [#34237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34237)
    - Fix a bug that `'0000-00-00 00:00:00'` can be inserted into a `datetime` column despite of the `NO_ZERO_DATE` sql_mode restriction [#34099](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34099)
    - Fix the issue that the TiDB server might run out of memory when querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` table. This issue can be triggered when you check slow queries on the Grafana dashboard. [#33893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33893)
    - Fix a bug that in the `NOWAIT` statement, a transaction being executed does not return immediately when encountering a lock [#32754](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32754)

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that cause creating table with `GBK` charset and `gbk_bin` collation fail [#31308](Can't create GBK table with collation · Issue #31308 · pingcap/tidb)
    - Fix bug that when `enable-new-charset` is `on`, creating a `GBK` charset table with collation fail with error "Unknown character set" [#31297](br restore failed with "Unknown character set: 'gbk'" if table CHARSET=gbk · Issue #31297 · pingcap/)

```

    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the bug that some exceptions are not handled properly [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that casting `INT` to `DECIMAL` might cause overflow [#3920](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3920)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the result of `IN` is incorrect in multi-value expressions [#4016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4016)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'\n'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)

>     - fix potential data corruption for large indices [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4778)
>     - Fix potential query error when select on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
>     - Fix bug that TiFlash query will meet keepalive timeout error randomly. [#4192](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4192)
>     - Avoid leaving data on tiflash node which doesn't corresponding to any region range [#4414](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4414)
>     - Fix the problem that empty segments cannot be merged after gc [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix potential data corruption in DTFiles [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4778)
    - Fix potential query errors when selecting on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
    - Fix a bug that TiFlash reports keepalive timeout errors randomly [#4192](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4192)
    - Fix a bug that data not matching any region range remains on a TiFlash node [#4414](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4414)
    - Fix a bug that empty segments cannot be merged after GC [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix the issue that BR fails to back up RawKV [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)

>         - Fix a bug of duplicate primary key when insert record into table after incremental restoration. [#33596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33596)
>         - Fix a bug that BR incremental restore return error by mistake caused by ddl job with empty query.[#33322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33322)
>         - Fix a bug that caused region unbalanced after restoring.[#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034)
>         - Fix the issue that BR not retry enough when region not consistency during restoration.[#33419](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33419)
>         - Fix a bug that caused BR panics sometime when merge small file enabled.[#33801](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33801)
>         - Fix the issue that the schedulers won't be resumed after BR/Lightning exits abnormally. [#33546](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33546)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix duplicate primary keys when inserting a record into a table after incremental restoration [#33596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33596)
        - Fix a bug that BR incremental restore returns errors mistakenly due to DDL jobs with empty query [#33322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33322)
        - Fix the potential issue that Regions might be unevenly distributed after a restore operation is finished [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034)
        - Fix the issue that BR does not retry enough when Regions are not consistent during restoration [#33419](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33419)
        - Fix BR panic that occurs occasionally when merging small file is enabled [#33801](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33801)
        - Fix the issue that schedulers do not resume after BR or TiDB Lightning exits abnormally [#33546](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33546)
```

        - Fix ErrProcessorDuplicateOperations when new scheduler is enabled (disabled by default) [#4769](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4769)
        - Fix the issue that ticdc failed to start when connects to multiple pd endpoints with tls-enabled and the 1st endpoint is not available [#4777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4777)
        - Fix checkpoint metrics when tables are being scheduled [#4714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4714)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the checksum error “GC life time is shorter than transaction duration” [#32733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32733)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning gets stuck when it fails to check empty tables [#31797](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31797)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix a bug that TiDB Lightning may not delete the metadata schema when some import tasks do not contain source files [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)

>         - Fix the issue that Lightning precheck doesn't check local disk resources and cluster available.[#34213](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34213)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the precheck does not check local disk resources and cluster availability [#34213](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34213)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix the issue that hundreds of "checkpoint has no change, skip sync flush checkpoint" print in the log and the replication is very slow [#4619](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4619)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix a bug that long varchars report an error `Column length too big` [#4637](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4637)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix the issue that execution errors of the update statement in safemode may cause the DM-worker panic [#4317](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4317)

>         - Fix the issue that manual execute the filtered DDL makes the task failed [#5272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5272)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that in some cases manually executing the filtered DDL in the downstream might cause the task to not retry resuming the task [#5272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5272)
```

>         - Fix a bug that no data is return by `query-status` when upstream doesn't turn on binlog [#5121](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5121)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that no data is returned for the `query-status` command when binlog is not enabled in the upstream [#5121](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5121)
```

        - Fix the issue that tracker panic when pk of downstream table orders behind [#5159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5159)

>         - Fix the issue that CPU usage may increased and print large amount logs when GTID enabled and task auto resumed. [#5063](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5063)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that CPU usage may increase and a large amount of log is printed when GTID is enabled or when the task is automatically resumed [#5063](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5063)
```

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `greatest` or `least` function with collation gets a wrong result [#31789](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31789)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix load data panic if the data is broken at an escape character [#31589](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31589)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the `invalid transaction` error when executing a query using index lookup join [#30468](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30468)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of deleting data of multiple tables using `left join` [#31321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31321)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix a bug that TiDB may dispatch duplicate tasks to TiFlash [#32814](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32814)
    - Fix a bug of duplicate primary key when insert record into table after incremental restoration. [#33596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33596)

>     - Fix the issue that the schedulers won't be resumed after BR/Lightning exits abnormally. [#33546](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33546)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that privilege-related operations may fail for upgraded clusters. [#33588](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33588)
    - fix bug #33509 [#33509](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33509)
    - fix a bug that compress function may report error [#33397](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33397)
    - Fix the issue that NewCollationEnable config not checked during restoration. [#33422](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33422)

>     - Fix a bug that BR incremental restore return error by mistake caused by ddl job with empty query. [#33322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33322)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

>     - Fix the issue that BR not retry enough when region not consistency during restoration. [#33419](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33419)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
    - fix potential data corruption for large indices [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4778)
    - Fix potential query error when select on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
    - Fix bug that TiFlash query will meet keepalive timeout error randomly. [#4192](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4192)
    - Avoid leaving data on tiflash node which doesn't corresponding to any region range [#4414](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4414)
    - Fix the problem that empty segments cannot be merged after gc [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)

+ Tools

>     + Backup & Restore (BR)

Reviewer 6: - Fix the issue that the schedulers won't be resumed after BR/Lightning exits abnormally. [#33546]

---
title: TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes
---

> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that a TiCDC node exits abnormally when a PD leader is killed [#4248](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4248)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that MySQL sink generates duplicated `replace` SQL statements when `batch-replace-enable` is disabled [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)
        - Fix the DML construct error caused by the `rename tables` DDL [#5059](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5059)
        - Fix the issue that in rare cases replication can be stuck if the owner is changed and the new scheduler is enabled (disabled by default) [#4963](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4963)
        - Fix the issue that the error ErrProcessorDuplicateOperations is reported when the new scheduler is enabled (disabled by default) [#4769](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4769)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC fails to start when the first PD set in `--pd` is not available after TLS is enabled [#4777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4777)

>         - Fix the issue that the checkpoint metrics is missing when tables are being scheduled [#4714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4714)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the checkpoint metrics are missing when tables are being scheduled [#4714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4714)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Support displaying multiple Kubernetes clusters in the Grafana dashboard [#4129](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4129)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Support multiple Kubernetes clusters in Grafana dashboards [#4665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4665)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Expose configuration parameters of the Kafka producer to make them configurable in TiCDC [#4385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4385)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Support Syncer using the working directory of the DM-worker rather than `/tmp` to write internal files, and cleaning the directory after the task is stopped [#4107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4107)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiDB writes wrong data due to the wrong encoding of the `ENUM` or `SET` column [#32302](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32302)

>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix a bug that causes the restore operation to fail when the encryption information is lost during backup retry [#32423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32423)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the error reporting that occurs when reading from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ATTRIBUTES` table by skipping the unidentifiable table attributes [#33665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33665)
    - Fix a bug that even if `@@tidb_enable_parallel_apply` is set, the `Apply` operator is not paralleled when an `order` property exists [#34237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34237)
    - Fix a bug that `'0000-00-00 00:00:00'` can be inserted into a `datetime` column despite of the `NO_ZERO_DATE` sql_mode restriction [#34099](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34099)
    - Fix the issue that the TiDB server might run out of memory when querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` table. This issue can be triggered when you check slow queries on the Grafana dashboard. [#33893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33893)
    - Fix a bug that in the `NOWAIT` statement, a transaction being executed does not return immediately when encountering a lock [#32754](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32754)

>     - Fix a bug that cause creating table with `GBK` charset and `gbk_bin` collation fail [#31308](Can't create GBK table with collation · Issue #31308 · pingcap/tidb)
>     - Fix bug that when `enable-new-charset` is `on`, creating a `GBK` charset table with collation fail with error "Unknown character set" [#31297](br restore failed with "Unknown character set: 'gbk'" if table CHARSET=gbk · Issue #31297 · pingcap/)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that causes a failure when creating a table with the `GBK` charset and `gbk_bin` collation [#31308](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31308)
    - Fix a bug that when `enable-new-charset` is `on`, creating a `GBK` charset table with collation fails with the "Unknown character set" error [#31297](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31297)
```

    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'\n'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
    - Fix potential data corruption in DTFiles [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4778)
    - Fix potential query errors when selecting on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
    - Fix a bug that TiFlash reports keepalive timeout errors randomly [#4192](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4192)
    - Fix a bug that data not matching any region range remains on a TiFlash node [#4414](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4414)
    - Fix a bug that empty segments cannot be merged after GC [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)

+ Tools

>     + Backup & Restore (BR)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    + Backup & Restore (BR)
    
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix a bug that causes the restore operation to fail when the encryption information is lost during backup retry [#32423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32423)
```

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `greatest` or `least` function with collation gets a wrong result [#31789](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31789)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix load data panic if the data is broken at an escape character [#31589](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31589)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the `invalid transaction` error when executing a query using index lookup join [#30468](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30468)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of deleting data of multiple tables using `left join` [#31321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31321)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix a bug that TiDB may dispatch duplicate tasks to TiFlash [#32814](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32814)
    - Fix the issue that granting the `all` privilege might fail in clusters that are upgraded from v4.0 [#33588](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33588)

>     - Fix the issue of session panic that occurs when executing the prepared statement after table schema change with the MySQL binary protocol [#33509](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33509)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the session panic that occurs when executing the prepared statement after table schema change with the MySQL binary protocol [#33509](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33509)
```

    - Fix the issue that executing SQL statements that have the `compress()` expression with `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` enabled will fail [#33397](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33397)
    - Fix the issue of high CPU usage by the `reArrangeFallback` function [#30353](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30353)

>     - Fix the issue that the table attributes are not indexed when a new partition is added and the issue that the table range information are not updated when the partition changes [#33929](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33929)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the table attributes are not indexed when a new partition is added and the issue that the table range information is not updated when the partition changes [#33929](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33929)
```

    - Fix a bug that the `TopN` statistical information of a table during the initialization is not correctly sorted  [#34216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34216)

>     - Fix the error reporting that occurs when reading from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ATTRIBUTES` table by skipping the unidentifiable table attributes [#33665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33665)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the error that occurs when reading from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ATTRIBUTES` table by skipping the unidentifiable table attributes [#33665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33665)
```

    - Fix a bug that even if `@@tidb_enable_parallel_apply` is set, the `Apply` operator is not paralleled when an `order` property exists [#34237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34237)

>     - Fix a bug that `'0000-00-00 00:00:00'` can be inserted into a `datetime` column despite of the `NO_ZERO_DATE` sql_mode restriction [#34099](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34099)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that `'0000-00-00 00:00:00'` can be inserted into a `datetime` column when `sql_mode` is set to `NO_ZERO_DATE` [#34099](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34099)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the TiDB server might run out of memory when querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` table. This issue can be triggered when you check slow queries on the Grafana dashboard. [#33893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33893)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the TiDB server might run out of memory when the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` table is queried. This issue can be triggered when you check slow queries on the Grafana dashboard. [#33893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33893)
```

    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is replaced with the peer that is destroyed without being initialized when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that TiKV might panic if it has been running for 2 years or more [#11940](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11940)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Reduce the TiCDC recovery time by reducing the number of the Regions that require the Resolve Locks step [#11993](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11993)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue caused by deleting snapshot files when the peer status is `Applying` [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
    - Fix panic invalid assertion in resource metering [#12234](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12234)

>     - Fix the issue that slow score calculation is inaccurate in corner cases [#12254](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12254)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that slow score calculation is inaccurate in some corner cases [#12254](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12254)
```

>     - Fix the OOM issue caused by the resolved_ts module and add more metrics [#12159](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12159)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the OOM issue caused by the `resolved_ts` module and add more metrics [#12159](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12159)
```

>     - Fix that successfully committed optimistic transactions may report false WriteConflict on network errors [#34066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34066)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that successfully committed optimistic transactions may report `Write Conflict` error when the network is poor [#34066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34066)
```

>     - Fix panicking when replica read is enabled and there is a long time network condition [#12046](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12046)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when replica read is enabled on a poor network [#12046](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12046)
```

+ PD

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that `Duration` fields of `dr-autosync` cannot be dynamically configured [#4651](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4651)

>     - Fix the issue that when there exists a store with more than a big free disk (2T for example) no balance operator generated even when one or more stores with its disk full [#4805](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4805)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when there exists a Store with large capacity (2T for example), fully allocated small Stores cannot be detected, resulting in no balance operator being generated [#4805](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4805)
```

Reviewer 5: A minor edit (see the edit history). Rest LGTM

>     - Fix the issue that in the metrics the label distribution has residual labels [#4825](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4825)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the label distribution has residual labels in the metrics [#4825](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4825)
```

+ TiFlash

    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when TLS is enabled [#4196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4196)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix possible metadata corruption caused by Region merge on a lagging Region peer [#4437](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4437)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that a query containing `JOIN` might be hung if an error occurs [#4195](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4195)

>     - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
>     - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)
>     - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the overflow that occurs when casting `FLOAT` to `DECIMAL` [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that expired data is recycled slowly [#4146](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4146)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that canceled MPP queries might cause tasks to hang forever when the local tunnel is enabled [#4229](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4229)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue of memory leak that occurs when a query is canceled [#4098](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4098)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue of memory leak that occurs when a query is canceled [#4098](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4098)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the overflow that occurs when casting `FLOAT` to `DECIMAL` [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that expired data is recycled slowly [#4146](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4146)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that canceled MPP queries might cause tasks to hang forever when the local tunnel is enabled [#4229](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4229)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue of memory leak that occurs when a query is canceled [#4098](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4098)
```

    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the bug that some exceptions are not handled properly [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that casting `INT` to `DECIMAL` might cause overflow [#3920](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3920)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the result of `IN` is incorrect in multi-value expressions [#4016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4016)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'\n'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
    - Fix potential data corruption in DTFiles [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4778)

>     - Fix potential query errors when selecting on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix potential errors when querying on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
```

>     - Fix potential data corruption in DTFiles [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4778)
>     - Fix potential query errors when selecting on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
>     - Fix a bug that TiFlash reports keepalive timeout errors randomly [#4192](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4192)
>     - Fix a bug that data not matching any region range remains on a TiFlash node [#4414](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4414)
>     - Fix a bug that empty segments cannot be merged after GC [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix potential data corruption in DTFiles [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4778)
    - Fix potential errors when querying on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
    - Fix a bug that TiFlash reports many ""Keepalive watchdog fired" errors randomly [#4192](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4192)
    - Fix a bug that data not matching any region range remains on a TiFlash node [#4414](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4414)
    - Fix a bug that empty segments cannot be merged after GC [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)
    
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix a bug that causes the restore operation to fail when the encryption information is lost during backup retry [#32423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32423)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix the issue that BR fails to back up RawKV [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)
        - Fix duplicate primary keys when inserting a record into a table after incremental restoration [#33596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33596)
        - Fix a bug that BR incremental restore returns errors mistakenly due to DDL jobs with empty query [#33322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33322)
        - Fix the potential issue that Regions might be unevenly distributed after a restore operation is finished [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034)

>         - Fix the issue that BR does not retry enough when Regions are not consistent during restoration [#33419](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33419)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that BR does not retry enough times when Regions are not consistent during restoration [#33419](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33419)
```

>         - Fix BR panic that occurs occasionally when merging small file is enabled [#33801](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33801)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that BR might panic occasionally when merging small files is enabled [#33801](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33801)
```

        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix a bug that TiDB Lightning may not delete the metadata schema when some import tasks do not contain source files [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
        - Fix the issue that Lightning precheck doesn't check local disk resources and cluster available.[#34213](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34213)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix the issue that hundreds of "checkpoint has no change, skip sync flush checkpoint" print in the log and the replication is very slow [#4619](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4619)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix a bug that long varchars report an error `Column length too big` [#4637](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4637)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix the issue that execution errors of the update statement in safemode may cause the DM-worker panic [#4317](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4317)

>         - Fix the issue that manual execute the filtered DDL makes the task failed [#5272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5272)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that in some cases manually executing the filtered DDL in the downstream might cause task resumption failure [#5272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5272)
```

@ran-huang PTAL

        - Fix a bug that no data is return by `query-status` when upstream doesn't turn on binlog [#5121](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5121)

>         - Fix the issue that tracker panic when pk of downstream table orders behind [#5159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5159)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the DM worker panic issue that occurs when the primary key is not first in the index returned by the `SHOW CREATE TABLE` statement [#5159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5159)
```

    - release-note [#34216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34216)
    - release-note [#34256](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34256)
    - release-note [#33665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33665)
    - release-note [#34237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34237)
    - lightning: split and scatter regions in batches [#33618](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33618)
    - release-note [#32459](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32459)
    - release-note [#34099](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34099)
    - release-note [#34213](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34213)
    - release-note [#34180](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34180)
    - release-note [#34139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/34139)
    - release-note [#33801](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33801)
    - release-note [#33893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33893)
    - Support multi k8s in grafana dashboards [#32593](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32593)
    - Fix the bug that locking with NOWAIT does not return immediately when encountering a lock. [#32754](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32754)

> + TiKV/TiKV
> 
>     - Fix that successfully committed optimistic transactions may report false WriteConflict on network errors. [#34066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34066)
>     - Fix panicking when replica read is enabled and there is a long time network condition [#12046](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12046)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 4: Moved to TiKV bug fixes

---
title: TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes

Release Date: May xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.4.1

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    - note 1
    - note 2

+ TiKV

    - note 1
    - note 2

## Improvements

> + TiDB

Reviewer 8: ## Compatibility changes:

## Improvements:

    - Add more debug information for `Apply` executor [#33887](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33887)
    - Improve the `TopN` pruning logic for analyze version 2 [#34256](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34256)
    - Support multi k8s in grafana dashboards [#32593](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32593)

## Bug fixes

    - Fix a bug that the initial `TopN` of the table's statistics may not be correctly sorted [#34216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34216)
    - Fix reading from `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ATTRIBUTES` return error by skipping the unidentifiable table attributes [#33665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33665)
    - Fix a bug that even though `@@tidb_enable_parallel_apply` is set, the apply operator is not paralleled when order property exists [#34237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34237)
    - Fix a bug that '0000-00-00 00:00:00' can be inserted into a datetime column in spite of the `NO_ZERO_DATE` sql_mode restriction [#34099](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34099)
    - Fix query `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` table cause TiDB server OOM, it can be triggered when checking slow query on the Dashboard [#33893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33893)
    - Fix the bug that locking with NOWAIT does not return immediately when encountering a lock. [#32754](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32754)

unsorted:
    - release-note [#27937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27937)    // this is a BR issue
    - lightning: split and scatter regions in batches [#33618](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33618)
    - release-note [#34213](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34213)   // also a lightening issue
    - release-note [#33801](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33801)   // br

    - release-note [#32459](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32459)  // this one is not fixed, https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/34253 is not merged, so remove it
    - release-note [#34180](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34180)  // minor issue, not cherry-picked, remove it
    - release-note [#34139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/34139)   // not a pr on 5.4.1, it's just a hotfix branch pr

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> TiDB)- Support using the PointGet plan for queries that read the `_tidb_rowid` column [#31543](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31543)

+ TiKV

>     - note 1

Reviewer 9: - metrics: support multi k8s in grafana dashboards. [#12104](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12104)

    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that replica reads might violate the linearizability [#12109](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12109)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is replaced with the peer that is destroyed without being initialized when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that TiKV might panic if it has been running for 2 years or more [#11940](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11940)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Reduce the TiCDC recovery time by reducing the number of the Regions that require the Resolve Locks step [#11993](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11993)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue caused by deleting snapshot files when the peer status is `Applying` [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)

>     - metrics: support multi k8s in grafana dashboards. [#12104](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12104)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 9: - Fix panic invalid assertion in resource metering. [#12234](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12234)
- Fix the issue that slow score calculation is inaccurate in corner cases. [#12254](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12254)
- Fix the oom issue caused by the resolved_ts module and add more metrics. [#12159](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12159)

        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a stability problem in workerpool used by Unified Sorter [#4447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4447)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that sequence is incorrectly replicated in some cases [#4563](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4552)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the TiCDC panic issue that might occur when `Canal-JSON` incorrectly handles `string` [#4635](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4635)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that a TiCDC node exits abnormally when a PD leader is killed [#4248](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4248)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that MySQL sink generates duplicated `replace` SQL statements when `batch-replace-enable` is disabled [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)

    + TiDB Lightning

> 

Reviewer 6: - Fix the issue that Lightning precheck doesn't check local disk resources and cluster available.[#34213](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34213)

+ TiKV/TiKV

    - Fix that successfully committed optimistic transactions may report false WriteConflict on network errors. [#34066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34066)
    - Fix panicking when replica read is enabled and there is a long time network condition [#12046](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12046)

+ PingCAP/TiFlash

    - fix potential data corruption for large indices [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4778)
    - Fix potential query error when select on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
    - Fix bug that TiFlash query will meet keepalive timeout error randomly. [#4192](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4192)
    - Avoid leaving data on tiflash node which doesn't corresponding to any region range [#4414](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4414)
    - Fix the problem that empty segments cannot be merged after gc [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)
    - metrics: support multi-k8s in grafana dashboards [#4129](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4129)

> + PD
> 
>     - None. [#4805](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4805)
>     - Fix the issue that the label distribution has residual labels [#4825](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4825)
>     - metrics: support multi-k8s in grafana dashboards [#4673](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4673)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 4: The above three notes have been added to PD improvements/bug fixes.

---
title: TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.4.1 Release Notes

Release Date: May xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.4.1

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    - note 1
    - note 2

+ TiKV

    - note 1
    - note 2

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> TiDB)- Support using the PointGet plan for queries that read the `_tidb_rowid` column [#31543](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31543)

+ TiKV

    - note 1

+ PD

>     - note 1

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
   - metrics: support multi-k8s in grafana dashboards [#4673](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4673)
```

+ TiDB Dashboard

    - note 1

+ TiFlash

>     - note 1

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - metrics: support multi-k8s in grafana dashboards [#4129](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4129)
```

    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is replaced with the peer that is destroyed without being initialized when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that TiKV might panic if it has been running for 2 years or more [#11940](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11940)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Reduce the TiCDC recovery time by reducing the number of the Regions that require the Resolve Locks step [#11993](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11993)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue caused by deleting snapshot files when the peer status is `Applying` [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
    - metrics: support multi k8s in grafana dashboards. [#12104](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12104)

+ PD

>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that `Duration` fields of `dr-autosync` cannot be dynamically configured [#4651](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4651)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that `Duration` fields of `dr-autosync` cannot be dynamically configured [#4651](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4651)
     -Fix the issue that when there exists a store with more than a big free disk(2T for example)  no balance operator generated even when one or more stores with its disk full. [#4805](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4805)
    - Fix the issue that in the metrics the label distribution has residual labels [#4825](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4825)
```

    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the bug that some exceptions are not handled properly [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that casting `INT` to `DECIMAL` might cause overflow [#3920](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3920)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the result of `IN` is incorrect in multi-value expressions [#4016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4016)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'\n'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
    - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)

> 

Reviewer 11: - fix potential data corruption for large indices [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4778)
    - Fix potential query error when select on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
    - Fix bug that TiFlash query will meet keepalive timeout error randomly. [#4192](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4192)
    - Avoid leaving data on tiflash node which doesn't corresponding to any region range [#4414](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4414)
    - Fix the problem that empty segments cannot be merged after gc [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix the issue that BR fails to back up RawKV [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)

Reviewer 6: - Fix a bug of duplicate primary key when insert record into table after incremental restoration. [#33596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33596)
- Fix a bug that BR incremental restore return error by mistake caused by ddl job with empty query.[#33322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33322)
- Fix a bug that caused region unbalanced after restoring.[#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034)
- Fix the issue that BR not retry enough when region not consistency during restoration.[#33419](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33419)

    + TiCDC

> 

Reviewer 6: - Fix the DML construct error issue caused by `rename tables` DDL. [#5059](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5059)
- Fix a rare likelihood that replication be stuck if the owner is changed when the new scheduler is enabled (disabled by default). [#4963](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4963)
- Fix ErrProcessorDuplicateOperations when new scheduler is enabled (disabled by default) [#4769](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4769)
- Fix the issue that ticdc failed to start when connects to multiple pd endpoints with tls-enabled and the 1st endpoint is not available [#4777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4777)
- Fix checkpoint metrics when tables are being scheduled. [#4714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4714)

        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that a TiCDC node exits abnormally when a PD leader is killed [#4248](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4248)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that MySQL sink generates duplicated `replace` SQL statements when `batch-replace-enable` is disabled [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the checksum error “GC life time is shorter than transaction duration” [#32733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32733)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning gets stuck when it fails to check empty tables [#31797](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31797)
        - (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix a bug that TiDB Lightning may not delete the metadata schema when some import tasks do not contain source files [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)

    + Dumpling

>         - note 1

Reviewer 6: - None

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

> 

Reviewer 6: - Fix the issue that manual execute the filtered DDL makes the task failed [#5272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5272)
- Fix a bug that no data is return by `query-status` when upstream doesn't turn on binlog [#5121](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5121)
- Fix a bug that checkpoint flushing will be called too frequently [#5063](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5063)
- Fix the issue that tracker panic when pk of downstream table orders behind [#5159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5159)
- send one heartbeat for successive skipped GTID when relay log enabled [#5063](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5063)

+ PingCAP/TiFlash

    - fix potential data corruption for large indices [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4778)
    - Fix potential query error when select on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
    - Fix bug that TiFlash query will meet keepalive timeout error randomly. [#4192](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4192)
    - Avoid leaving data on tiflash node which doesn't corresponding to any region range [#4414](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4414)
    - Fix the problem that empty segments cannot be merged after gc [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)
    - metrics: support multi-k8s in grafana dashboards [#4129](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4129)

+ PD

    - None. [#4805](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4805)
    - Fix the issue that the label distribution has residual labels [#4825](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4825)
    - metrics: support multi-k8s in grafana dashboards [#4673](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4673)

>     - None. [#4808](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4808)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
```
